[Music]
once upon a time in a little town there
lived a boy who dried his mobile phone
with a hairdryer and never put it in
airplane mode before takeoff people told
him to stop but he wouldn't listen
so the passengers duct-taped him to the
wing outside and he had a very windy
flight and lousy reception okay maybe
not the duct-tape thing but let's check
out some common beliefs about
smartphones and see if they're
appropriate or bogus one drain your
battery completely before you recharge
it false batteries used in phones about
10 years ago really lasted longer if you
drop them to zero before plugging in the
phone lithium ion batteries used these
days prefer going it's somewhere between
40 to 80 percent if you often let it
drain completely before charging it
again be prepared to replace the battery
every six months or so - your phone is
safe without a screen protector true
first-generation touchscreen smartphones
needed outside protection from scratches
chips and cracks today phone screens are
strong enough on their own the two
things they can't stand are sand and
hard rocks so unless you spend a lot of
time at the beach or drop your phone on
concrete every now and then you are good
to go
without a screen protector 3 you can dry
a wet phone with a hairdryer false and
risky technically you can dry your phone
with a hairdryer but you don't really
want to because it will overheat your
gadget phones don't like too much heat
just saying I wonder if there's some
other way to solve the issue rice maybe
4 if hair dryer is too hot just drop the
phone in a bag of rice hmm false unless
you have a wider resistant device don't
drop into a bathtub even if you'll
always have a bag of uncooked rice on
hand rice can absorb moisture but not
from the inside of your phone and what's
worse the starch from the rice can get
into the cracks
take the damage to the next level five
charging overnight is bad for your fall
false the first cell phones actually
didn't like being charged overnight but
fortunately they really got smarter over
time today's generation has extra
protection on the chips and in the
software that won't let them charge over
100% when they reach that point the
process will just stop automatically six
closing background apps is a sure way to
save battery falls when you leave one
app and start using another one the
first one is stored in RAM to reopen in
exactly the same condition you left it
this multitasking algorithm helps save
power and when you manually shut down
apps that aren't in use
you're wasting way more power 7 the more
megapixels the better the photos Falls
how many megapixels does your phone
camera have one of my friends recently
posted a 48 megapixels but looking at
his pictures I could tell my 12
megapixel one is doing a better job at
photography the reason is its quality
and not quantity of those megapixels
that matters in the first place when
manufacturers squeeze more of those into
a phone camera the sensor simply can't
handle them anyway eight don't keep your
phone next to a credit card or else it
will shop online and spend all your
money ah just kidding this is also false
the myth goes that the card will
demagnetize if you keep it close to a
smartphone in truth your smartphone's
magnetic field isn't nearly strong
enough for that a fridge magnet maybe
but not the phone 9 using free public
Wi-Fi is a chancy business true
it's a savior on vacation when data
roaming is crazy expensive and you don't
want to buy a local sim but that's
probably the only situation you can
really use it and still with precaution
and a VPN don't ever pass on your
personal data or financial details when
using a free grid that's because they
are open to anyone including hackers
that jump into communications to steal
data Wi-Fi hotspots are the worst in
this regard because they need no
authentication for connection 10 4G eats
more data than 3G
false 4g just loads the same data
volumes faster than 3G it does use
slightly more battery power though the
same is true for 5g so if you need to
save battery you might want to keep it
on 3G unless you have to download
something quicker 11 a fast charger can
damage your phone Falls fast chargers
send more electricity to your phone and
so it's full of juice again in half the
regular time or even quicker someone
started a rumor that it can damage the
battery in fact a fast charger slows
down somewhere between 60 and 80 percent
and then finishes the process at regular
speed so there won't be too much current
the only concern could be the extra heat
but any battery ages with time anyway 12
the more RAM the better the phone is
false
do you often have to work in five apps
on your phone at the same time unless
you said yes you really don't need to
invest in a phone with eight gigabytes
of RAM it's random access memory just to
make it clear because that's what it's
much better at a phone with four or even
three gigabytes with a powerful
processor works fast enough to let you
switch from app to app and do other
things and it's just as fit for the
latest operating systems
13 4k display is what you absolutely
need on your phone boss
4k is great for a large display such as
TV or a computer screen as for your
phone it's a waste of money the human
eye can't perceive anything higher than
2k or even full HD on such a small
display more than that the more pixels
your phone Hardware has to drive the
more battery it spends on it 14
smartphones are a source of radiation
this is true but it's a kind of
electromagnetic radiation that is
completely safe for humans and no you
can't cook an egg between two ringing
fawns that's just an urban myth you need
about 7,000 phones just to warm up the
egg a tiny bit oh by the way if you
steal the egg you could say it was
poached okay number 15 you can't use
your smartphone when it's charging Falls
it's totally safe to do it one thing you
should know though is it slows down the
charging process now do you personally
use your phone while charging or did you
have doubts about the safety of this
ritual let me know down in the comments
you know down below speaking of charging
sixteen phones charge faster in airplane
mode partly true when you switch to
airplane mode your phone stops trying to
connect to cell towers and pinpoint your
position when these functions are
disabled it's using less energy it does
speed up the charging process but not
that much you might be able to save
about 10 minutes but that's it 17 your
gadget can really interfere with plane
systems this is easily one of the most
burning issues frequent fliers ponder on
and it's true just one smartphone won't
mess up the flight but if many
passengers decide to ignore the please
switch your devices to airplane mode
command it can seriously interfere with
the plane's flight systems so you better
not take that risk
18 if you take out your SIM card no one
will ever find you false if you think
someone might ever want to track your
location they'll be able to do it even
if you take the SIM card out the trick
might work in spy movies but in reality
you can be easily found thanks to GPS as
long as you're still using that phone 19
plastic based smartphones are the worst
Falls they have their pros and cons but
all in all they are just as good as
metal or glass based phones and they
even have some benefits they are cheaper
lighter and highly unlikely to break
even if you drop them plus the plastic
body makes signal reception easier 20
the only safe charger is the original
one manufacturers want you to believe it
but it's actually false unless you go
for a $1 knock off quality third-party
chargers and cables are totally safe for
your smartphone they have built-in
safety mechanisms just like the original
chargers and your phone won't burn or
anything 21 automatic brightness mode is
a sure way to save battery
now dimming your screen does help save
some charge but that whole automatic
brightness mode is brought to you by a
light sensor that's probably going to
spend even more power on collecting
thing and analyzing data about the
surroundings to pick the right light
level so is that clear okay so hey if
you learn something new today then give
the video a like and share it with a
friend and here are some other cool
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life
[Music]